# P2 Self Check Questions

We cover a lot of information in this phase.  Below you will find a list of questions you can attempt to answer to self-check your progress through the phase.  It is best if you tackle the list of questions pertaining to a particular topic after covering it in the guide.  If you find yourself unable to answer any of these questions with your own self-study and work, reach out to an instructor to go over the points where you find gaps in your knowledge.   

## HTTP

  - What are the common request types associated with RESTful routing?
  - What are the components of an HTTP request?
  - What is the content type associated with html form submissions?
  - What is the request header that can simulate state across requests?
  - What is the request header that indicates the request is an AJAX request?
  - What is the purpose of a cookie header?
  - What are the different HTTP Verbs and what are they used for?
  - What is the underlying data format of HTTP?
  - You should be able to draw a diagram of a request/response cycle from the client to the server and back
  - What are the responsibilities of the HTTP client?
  - What are the responsibilities of the HTTP server?
  - What are some common HTTP reponse codes and what are they for?
  - What are the components of an HTTP Reponse?
  - What is the purpose of the set-cookie header?
  - What are the different components of a URL?
  - What is the default port for HTTP?
  - What is the scheme for securely passing information to/from the server?

## Sinatra

  - What is sinatra?
  - What is the simplest sinatra app we could make?
  - What is the underlying middleware that Sinatra sits on top of?
  - What does this middleware do for us?
  - Before responding to an HTTP request, we may need to reference or use various forms of data and state that are either managed by the server or included in the client’s request. Please give a few examples.
  - What is the relationship between the erb templates and the HTTP response body?
  - What is the difference between redirect and rendering a template?
  - What is a method override and why do we need to do it?
  
## Sessions

  - What are sessions?
  - Why do we need to use sessions?
  - What types of data can be stored in session?
  - What types of things should we not store in session?
  - How is the session passed from the server to the client?

## Authentication

  - What is authentication?
  - Why do we need it?
  - How do we authenticate a user?

## BCrypt

  - What is BCrypt?
  - Why do we need it?
  - Why should we never store plain text passwords in the database?
  - The BCrypt methods that we write, what do they do for us?
  - When we authenticate a user, how are we able to compare the plaintext password with the encrypted one stored in the database?

## Authorization

  - What is authorization?
  - What is the difference between authorization and authentication?
  - Why do we use authorization?
  - Why is it not enough to just show / hide buttons in an application?
  - How do we fully secure an application?

## ActiveRecord

  - What are the expectations for a belongs_to association based on Active Record conventions?
  - What are the expectations for a has_many association based on Active Record conventions?
  - What are the expectations for a has_many:through association based on Active Record conventions?
  - What are the instance methods generated by belongs_to?
  - What are the instance methods generated by has_many?
  - What are the instance methods generated by has_many:through?
  - How can you associate one object with another using active record instance methods?
  - How does Active Record keeps track of which migrations it has already run?
  - What happens when Active Record rolls migrations back?
  - What happens when Active Record runs migrations?
  - When are errors present on an Active Record object?
  - What can we use those errors for?

## HTML

  - What is HTML?
  - Why do we use it?
  - What is the effect of adding a label to various form elements?
  - How and why would you use the alt attribute?
  - How and why would you use the tabindex attribute?
  - How and why would you use the title attribute?
  - What are common use cases for the `<meta>` element?
  - What is the difference in how inline and block elements display?
  - What are some common inline tags?
  - What are some common block level tags?
  - What are `data-` attributes for?
  - What are some common html attributes and how do you write them?
  - What is the purpose of the form element's action attribute?
  - What is the purpose of the form element's method attribute?
  - When do you use the different input types?
  - What is meant by semantic markup?
  - What are the difference between some of the common container html elements?
  - What does it mean for HTML to be valid?
  - Why is it important that we write valid html?

## CSS

  - What is CSS?
  - What does it allow us to do?
  - What is the box model?
  - How is the box size calculated?
  - What is the difference between margin and padding?
  - Which box model properties apply to block, inline, inline-block elements? 
  - What is the default positioning for elements?
  - What are the differences in static, relative, absolute, and fixed positioning?
  - How do floats effect positioning?
  - What are the benefits of responsive design?
  - What is the relationship between relatively positioned and absolutely positioned elements?
  - How do you define inline styles?
  - Why is it best to avoid inline styles?
  - How do we link an external style sheet?
  - What are some common css selectors?
  
## JavaScript

  - Why is accessing a property with bracket notation more appropriate than dot notation?
  - How do you add a property to an object?
  - How do you change the value of an object's property?
  - How do you remove a property from an object?
  - How do you write an `if` statement?
  - How do you write a `switch` statement?
  - How do you write a `for` loop?
  - How do you write a `for..in` loop?
  - What is the difference between declaring a variable using and not using `var`?
  - What happens when we try to access property of an object that doesn't exist?
  - What is variable hoisting?
  - How can we split a string into segments in javascript?
  - How do you write a function?
  - What is the inheritance system that JavaScript uses?
  - How does property lookup work in JavaScript?
  - What is the relationship between a function's prototype and objects created with the function?
  - How do we define a constructor function?
  - How do you add functions to a constructor function's prototype?
  - What is an object literal?
  - When do we use an object literal vs a contructor function?
  - What is a callback function and how do we use it?
  - What is a closure and how do we use it?
  - How is scope determined in JavaScript?
  - What is a higher-order function?
  - What does it mean for a function to be a 'first-class citizen'?
  - Can you write a function that returns a function?
  - What type of scope is used JavaScript?
  - What is `this`?
  - What are the methods `call`, `apply`, and `bind` used for?
  - What is variable shadowing?

## jQuery

  - What is jQuery?
  - What does it allow us to do?
  - What are the common types of selectors we can use?

## Event Handling

  - What are events?
  - How/Why do we bind events?
  - What is event bubbling?
  - What is event delegation?
  - Why do we need to delegate events?

## AJAX

  - What is AJAX?
  - What are the benefits of an AJAX request vs reloading the whole page?
  - What is the `$.ajax()` jQuery method actually doing for us?
  - What are the common options that can be sent to the `$.ajax()` jQuery method and what are they used for?
  - When does the done / error callback actually execute?
  - How do we know that we've made an ajax request in our controller?
